---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smart Questions
date: 2017-09-07
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Essay
---
  What is considered to be a smart question? When it comes to software engineering communication is one of the most important tools that
makes up a good software engineer. In this field of work you tend to ask a lot of questions that can help better your work and questions
that can provide an explanation to let’s say why your code is not doing what it’s supposed to be doing.  Software engineers look to
forums such as StackOverFlow to get help on any programming relating problems and or questions they might have. When posting to
StackOverFlow you might notice that if you don’t post a “Smart question” you might not get a response back. Smart questions are
considered to be questions that can lead to both effective and efficient help and not waste the time of other developers by asking
questions that could be easily found by searching the web. 

[Example Of A Smart Question]( https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46110797/why-is-dereferenced-element-in-const-vector-of-int-pointers-mutable)

  A Smart question like the example above is a question that demonstrates precise and informative description of the problem occurring.
For example in this question the developer asked a question regarding clarification on pointers in his code. The developer has shown in
his question that he has done research, trial and error tests, and has provided all the material needed in order to make his question
clear. In response he got two answers back that target and answer his specific question. 

[Example Of A Non Smart Question]( https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46110142/how-to-download-5th-version-of-turn-js)

  A non-smart question like the example above is a great example of what not to post on a forum such as StackOverFlow. The question this
user is asking is how to download a 5th version of turn.js. To start the developer that asked this question provided no information
about theresearch she has done in order to complete her task. She also was not informative about what she is trying to do by downloading
this program, and she hasn’t even provided and steps she took in trying to pin down the problem at hand. Thus basically not showing any
effort in order to try and solve the problem its self. What also makes this funny is that out of curiosity I decided to copy and paste
her question into google and got a lot of information regarding her question. In the end this a non-smart question because of the lack
of precise and informative information that included when asking a question.

  In conclusion, software engineers need to develop great communication skills in order to provide and receive knowledgeable information
about a specific topic. This includes developing smart question that provide precise and informative information regarding your
question. Showing a willingness to learn by providing diagnostic steps, trial and error attempts, and providing research regarding your
question can provide a great deal of help to other developers to potentially help solve your problems asked. If instead you ask a
question for example on how to download google chrome this is considered to be a non-smart question and could easily be found on the
web. Thus wasting the time of other developers.
